---
layout: about
title: About
permalink: /
description: Assistant Professor at the University of California, Santa Cruz. <br /> I'm looking for graduate students interested in starting Fall 2022! <br/>(Click here)[https://grad.soe.ucsc.edu/cse] for information about CSE at UC Santa Cruz; (click here)[https://applygrad.ucsc.edu/apply/] to go directly to the application page

profile:
  align: right
  image: AQGreen.jpg
  address: >
    <p>Office 365, Engineering #2</p>
    <p>1156 High St</p>
    <p>Santa Cruz, CA 95064</p>

news: true  # includes a list of news items
#selected_papers: true # includes a list of papers marked as "selected={true}"
social: true  # includes social icons at the bottom of the page
---

My goal is to make it easier for developers to build correct and
efficient software systems.  I have a developer-focused approach to
research: I focus on the fixing the problems facing developers when
building large-scale applications.  I am primarily a [``systems
guy''](https://www.usenix.org/system/files/1311_05-08_mickens.pdf),
but my work often intersects with architecture, programming languages,
and software engineering.

Most of my work is all about bugs: finding them, understanding them,
and fixing them.  For example, my dissertation proposed data-centric
execution inspection, a data-oriented approach for analyzing the
runtime behavior of a software system.  My thesis treats software
executions like data objects and thus enables the use of data-oriented
techniques, such as massive-scale parallelization and relational query
models, for software engineering tasks like debugging, security
forensics, data provenance, and configuration management.

I also explore the the intersection of software reliability and
emerging hardware technologies.  For example, we improved the
reliability of persistent memory applications by automatically finding
bugs (Agamotto) and fixing bugs (Hippocrates) in these applications.
We performed the first study of bugs in, and software-like debugging
tools for, FPGA circuits () and have continued working on similar
advanced techniques in this space (coming soon!).  Finally, I'm
working with a group at UCSC to improve the reliability of GPUs
(coming soon!).

Lastly, we are investigating reliability and performance in
disaggregated data-centers.  We're investigating the performance
implications of using these system and proposing solutions to mitigate
bottlenecks.  We're also identifying the tradeoffs between performance
and reliability in these systems and finding ways to exploit them.

If any of this interests you, let's talk!
