---
layout: class
title: CSE 130
term: Spring
description: Introduction to Computer Systems
year: 2021-2022
category: syllabus
---


# CSE130 Fall 2022
## Principles of Computer System Design

|key | value|
|-----|-------|
|When: | Monday, Wednesday, and Friday at <b>2:40 PM--3:45 PM</b>|
|Where: | Humanities Lecture Hall (Room #206) |
|Who: | [Dr. Andrew Quinn](http://arquinn.github.io) & [Chris Parsa](https://engineering.ucsc.edu/people/chris)|
|Office hours: | TBD |
|Prerequisites: | CSE 12 and (CSE 101 or (CSE 15 and CSE 15L)); knowledge of C programming language. |
|Required Text: | Principles of Computer System Design, Saltzer & Kaashoek (ISBN 0123749573)|
|TA: | TBD|


# Course Overview

Students in this course will be introduced to the concerns facing the
design and implementation of computer systems, including complexity,
concurrency, and performance.  Students will be introduced to
principles to manage these issues, including modularity / abstraction,
naming, and synchronization.  They will be introduced to how these
principles govern the computer systems that are used today and how to
apply these principles to new problems moving forward.  This exposure
will be invaluable in later courses at UC Santa Cruz, including
operating systems, database design, computer security, and distributed
systems.

#  Course Outline
 * Introduction to computer systems
 * Key abstractions of a computer systems
 * Clients-Server systems
 * Virtualization
 * Synchronization and Concurrency
 * Performance concerns in computer systems
 * Naming

# COVID-19 Information

Each individual at UC Santa Cruz should act in the best interests of
everyone else in our community. Please take care to comply with all
university guidelines about masking in indoor settings, performing
daily symptom and badge checks, testing as required by the campus
vaccine policy, self-isolating in the event of exposure, and
respecting others’ comfort with distancing.  Please do not come to
class if your badge is not green, and expect to wear a mask at all
class sessions.  If you forget your mask, you can ask me for one;
there is a limited supply of disposable masks in each classroom.

If you are ill or suspect you may have been exposed to someone who is
ill, or if you have symptoms that are in any way similar to those of
COVID-19, please err on the side of caution and stay home until you
are well or have tested negative after an exposure.  Please
communicate with me if you experience an illness or exposure that
requires you to miss class sessions; I will provide you with options
so that you can continue to make progress in the course.  that you can
keep making progress

I have designed our course following campus guidance and with current
public health guidelines in mind. However, these guidelines may change
in accordance with shifting infection rates or the emergence of new
variants. If updated public health recommendations and university
requirements make our current course format unfeasible, or if I
experience a need to self-isolate, I will alter the format. This may
include moving in-person sessions onto Zoom and/or modifying course
assignments to work in a remote format. I will communicate clearly
with you via email about any changes that occur. I will provide as
much advance warning as possible and give you all the information you
need to transition smoothly to the new format. If you have questions
about the changes, please reach out to me so I can answer them.


# Prerequisites

The prerequisites for CSE 130 are CSE 12 and either CSE 101 or (CSE 15
and CSE 15L) as well as knowledge of C programming language.  In
particular, students should be comfortable with c-strings and dynamic
memory in C.  Students will likely find it easier to succeed with some
familiarity with make, git, valgrind, and gdb.  The first programming
assignment will serve as a refresher for the required background.  We
encourage you proactively seek help to ensure that you understand the
prerequisite material--we will not have time to cover it in lecture.

# Resources 

We will use the textbook Principles of Computer System Design By
Saltzer & Kaashoek.  The material covered in this course is complex;
success will almost certainly require reading the material before
lecture and coming prepared to ask questions and discuss the material
at lecture.  Other material for the class will be distributed online
using Canvas or Piazza. Canvas will include assignments and grading,
while Piazza will include announcements and discussions.
 
# Evaluation

We will measure your knowledge of the material for the course in the
following ways:

| Evaluation Metric | Percentage |
--------------------|--------------
| Midterm Exams (2) | 20% |
| Final Exam | 20% |
| Programming Assignments | 50% |
| Participation | 10% |

## Exams

We will use two midterms and a final exam to evaluate how well you are
learning the principles discussed in the course.  You must take each
exam at the scheduled time unless you are ill or have an unexpected
family emergency and have the required documentation (e.g., a note
from a doctor).

The first midterm will take place on 4/20/22 and will cover roughly
the first 1/3 of the course, while the second midterm will take place
on 5/20/22 and cover the second 1/3 of the course.  Each midterm will
be worth 10% of the total points in the class. The final exam will be
cumulative, worth 20% of the grade, and held at the time slot
specified by the registrar (6/6/22 from 12:00PM--3:00PM).


## Programming assignments

You will complete four programming assignments to show how well you
are able to apply the concepts in the class to real-world scenarios.
Programming assignments must be completed individually.  The due dates
for the assignment are 4/12/22, 4/26/22, 5/12/22, and 5/30/22.

You must turn in each assignment to pass the class. You will submit
each assignment via a git repository on GitLab@UCSC and will submit a
commit ID that passes the minimum requirements using a form that will
be specified in each assignment.  The minimum requirements specify
that the submitted source code must correctly compile; we have setup
the GitLab@UCSC GUI to show a green checkmark next to all commits that
meet the minimum requirements. <b> If a commit ID does not meet the
minimum requirements, you will get a maximum score of 5 points <b>.

You will each be given 5 "grace days" that you may use, no
explanation necessary, to extend the due date of an assignment by 24
hours (this includes weekends and holidays). You may use any and all
of your remaining grace days on an assignment; you do not have to use
them all at once. <b>We will not grant any extensions</b>, so use your
grace days wisely.  Once you’re out of grace days, late projects will
lose 25 points (out of 100) per day.  All assignments must be
submitted prior to the last day of teaching; assignments submitted
after this time will not be counted towards your course grade.

To encourage you to start early and turn your material in early,
assignments will get a 1 point bonus for every 8 hours they’re
submitted early, up to a maximum bonus of 9 points. So, if you turn in
your assignment 20 hours before it’s due, you get 2 points added to
your grade. The bonus is unavailable if you’re using grace days for
the assignment.

Your assignments will be graded on the Ubuntu 20.04 operating
system. See Getting Help below for more information.

## Participation

To encourage active participation in class, we will be giving points
to students who actively engage publicly in the CSE 130 course
material.  You can show such engagement by (1) asking or answering
questions in class and/or lab sections, (2) asking or answering
questions in Piazza, or (3) actively participating in in-class
forms/assignments.

# Attendance

We won’t take attendance in class or labs.  But, you will find that it
is difficult to succeed in CSE 130 without attending lecture and labs.

# Getting Help

The material in this class is complex, so there are several ways to
get help with concepts covered in class, homework, and programming
assignments. In particular, we have the following avenues to get help:

* Attend and ask questions in lecture
* Attend and ask questions in lab section
* Attend and ask questions in office hours
* Post a public question on Piazza
* Send a private message to course staff on Piazza


Since there are many more students in the course than instructors,
TAs, and tutors, we encourage students to ask questions about the
concepts rather than about issue that only affect you.  The following
rules apply to your interactions with course staff (instructors, TAs,
and tutors):

* If you want help fixing a bug in your assignment code, then you must
  (1) provide a test that produces an output that you don't expect
  and (2) have an Ubuntu 20.04 virtual machine to test the assignment.
  After meeting (1) and (2), you may post a private Piazza message or
  talk with course staff during office hours or lab sections.

* If you need help crafting a test, then you may post a question on
  Piazza, or discuss with course staff in lecture, office hours, or
  lab sections. <b> Note: You cannot post your code as a public
  question in Piazza, but can discuss the high-level conceptual
  problem for which you want to design a test. <b>

* If you have questions about the concepts in the course, then you may
  post a question on Piazza, come to office hours, or lab section.

* If you have a question about grading or course logistics (e.g.,
  Withdrawals or Incompletes), then you may send a private piazza
  message to Dr. Quinn or go to his office hours.

Private Piazza questions will typically get a response by the end of
the next business day.  Public ones will be answered more quickly,
since they have hundreds of eyes on them (In fact, answering your
fellow student's questions is a great way to earn participation
points!) <b>Do not email the course staff directly unless
asked<b>--this helps us keep all course communication in one place.

Note: It is never OK to post your source code for an assignment; see
Academic Integrity below.

# Academic Integrity

All members of the UCSC community benefit from an environment of
trust, honesty, fairness, respect, and responsibility. You are
expected to present your own work and acknowledge the work of others
in order to preserve the integrity of scholarship.

Academic integrity includes:
- Following assessment rules
- Incorporating proper citation of all sources of information
- Submitting your own original work 

Academic misconduct includes, but is not limited to, the following:
- Copying/purchasing any material from another student, or from
  another source, that is submitted for grading as your own
- Plagiarism, including use of Internet material without proper
  citation
- Submitting your own work in one class that was completed for another
  class (self-plagiarism) without prior permission from the
  instructor.

Violations of the Academic Integrity policy can result in dismissal
from the university and a permanent notation on a student’s
transcript. For the full policy and disciplinary procedures on
academic dishonesty, students and instructors should refer to the
[Academic Integrity for Graduate
Students](https://www.ucsc.edu/academics/academic-integrity/).

# Accessibility

UC Santa Cruz is committed to creating an academic environment that
supports its diverse student body. If you are a student with a
disability who requires accommodations to achieve equal access in this
course, please submit your Accommodation Authorization Letter from the
Disability Resource Center (DRC) to me privately by email, preferably
within the first two weeks of the quarter. At this time, I would like
us to discuss ways we can ensure your full participation in the
course. I encourage all students who may benefit from learning more
about DRC services to contact the DRC by phone at 831-459-2089 or by
email at drc@ucsc.edu.


# Intellectual Property

The materials in this course are the intellectual property of their
creators. As a student, you have access to many of the materials in
the course for the purpose of learning, engaging with your peers in
the course, completing assignments, etc. You have a moral and legal
obligation to respect the rights of others by only using course
materials for purposes associated with the course. For instance, you
are not permitted to share, upload, stream, sell, republish, share the
login information for, or otherwise disseminate any of the course
materials, such as: video and audio files, assignment prompts, slides,
notes, syllabus, simulations, data-sets, discussion
threads. Conversely, any materials created by you (for example, your
videos, essays, images, audio files, annotations, notes) are your
intellectual property and you may use them as you wish. 

# Religious Accommodation

UC Santa Cruz welcomes diversity of religious beliefs and practices,
recognizing the contributions differing experiences and viewpoints can
bring to the community. There may be times when an academic
requirement conflicts with religious observances and practices. If
that happens, students may request the reasonable accommodation for
religious practices. The instructor will review the situation in an
effort to provide a reasonable accommodation without penalty. You
should first discuss the conflict and your requested accommodation
with your instructor early in the term. You or your instructor may
also seek assistance from the Dean of Students office
(https://deanofstudents.ucsc.edu).


# Principles of Community
                                                                                                   
The University of California, Santa Cruz expressly prohibits students
from engaging in conduct constituting unlawful discrimination,
harassment or bias (see
https://reporthate.ucsc.edu/principles-and-policies/index.html).  I am
committed to providing an atmosphere for learning that respects
diversity and supports inclusively. We need to work together to build
this community of learning. I ask all members of this class to: - be
open to and interested in the views of others consider the possibility
that your views may change over the course of the term - be aware that
this course asks you to reconsider some “common sense” notions you may
hold honor the unique life experiences of your colleagues - appreciate
the opportunity that we have to learn from each other listen to each
other’s opinions and communicate in a respectful manner - keep
confidential discussions that the community has of a personal (or
professional) nature - ground your comments in the work we are
studying. Refer frequently to the texts and make them the focus of
your questions, comments, and arguments. This is the single most
effective way to ensure respectful discussion and to create a space
where we are all learning together.


# Title IX and CARE

UC Santa Cruz is committed to providing a safe learning environment
that is free of all forms of gender discrimination and sexual
harassment, which are explicitly prohibited under Title IX. If you
have experienced any form of sexual harassment, sexual assault,
domestic violence, dating violence, or stalking, know that you are not
alone. The Title IX Office, the Campus Advocacy, Resources & Education
(CARE) office, and Counseling & Psychological Services (CAPS) are all
resources that you can rely on for support.
 
Please be aware that if you tell me about a situation involving Title
IX misconduct, I am required to share this information with the Title
IX Coordinator. This reporting responsibility also applies to course
TAs and tutors (as well to all UCSC employees who are not designated
as “confidential” employees, which is a special designation granted to
counselors and CARE advocates). Although I have to make that
notification, you will control how your case will be handled,
including whether or not you wish to pursue a formal complaint. The
goal is to make sure that you are aware of the range of options
available to you and that you have access to the resources you need.
 
Confidential resources are available through
[CARE](https://care.ucsc.edu). Confidentiality means CARE advocates
will not share any information with Title IX, the police, parents, or
anyone else without explicit permission. CARE advocates are trained to
support you in understanding your rights and options, accessing health
and counseling services, providing academic and housing
accommodations, helping with legal protective orders, and more. You
can contact CARE at (831) 502-2273 or care@ucsc.edu.
 
In addition to CARE, these resources are available to you:

- If you need help figuring out what resources you or someone else
  might need, visit the [resources page from the Title IX Office](https://titleix.ucsc.edu/_content-blocks/left-nav-blocks/resources-landing-page.html)
- Counseling & Psychological Services (CAPS) can provide confidential
  [counseling support](https://caps.ucsc.edu). Call them at (831)
  459-2628.
- You can also report gender discrimination and sexual harassment and
  violence directly to the University’s Title IX Office
  (https://titleix.ucsc.edu), by calling (831) 459-2462 or by using
  their [online reporting tool](https://titleix.ucsc.edu/about/staff-contact-us.html).
- Reports to law enforcement can be made to the UC Police Department,
  (831) 459-2231 ext. 1.
- For emergencies, call 911.
                                                                                                   

## Report an Incident of Hate or Bias

The University of California, Santa Cruz is committed to maintaining
an objective, civil, diverse and supportive community, free of
coercion, bias, hate, intimidation, dehumanization or
exploitation. The Hate/Bias Response Team is a group of administrators
who support and guide students seeking assistance in determining how
to handle a bias incident involving another student, a staff member,
or a faculty member. To report an incident of hate or bias, please use
this [form](https://ucsc-advocate.symplicity.com/care_report/index.php/pid894170?)


## Student Services

##### [Counseling and Psychological Services](https://caps.ucsc.edu)

Many students at UCSC face personal challenges or have psychological
needs that may interfere with their academic progress, social
development, or emotional welling. The university offers a variety
of confidential services to help you through difficult times,
including individual and group counseling, crisis intervention,
consultations, online chats, and mental health screenings. These
services are provided by staff who welcome all students and embrace a
philosophy respectful of clients’ cultural and religious backgrounds,
and sensitive to differences in race, ability, gender identity and
sexual orientation.

##### [Student Success and Engagement Hub](https://studentsuccess.ucsc.edu/)

The Division of Student Success provides campus-wide coordination and
leadership for student success programs and activities across
departments, divisions, the colleges, and administrative units.

##### [Slug Support Program](https://deanofstudents.ucsc.edu/slug-support/program/index.html)

College can be a challenging time for students and during times of
stress it is not always easy to find the help you need.  Slug Support
can give help with everything from basic needs (housing, food, or
financial insecurity) to getting the technology you need during remote
instruction.  To get started with SLUG Support, please contact the
Dean of Students Office at 831-459-4446 or you may send us an email at
deanofstudents@ucsc.edu.

##### [Slug Help/Technology](https://its.ucsc.edu/index.html)

The ITS Support Center is your single point of contact for all issues,
problems or questions related to technology services and computing at
UC Santa Cruz. To get technological help, simply email help@ucsc.edu.

###### [On-Campus Emergency Contacts](https://www.ucsc.edu/help/)

Slug Help/Emergency Services. For all other help and support,
including the health center and emergency services, start here. Always
dial 9-1-1 in the case of an emergency.

